In my visit to the Dissection Room (DR) today, I worked together with a group of about 6 other students to observe a whole cadaver and try to analyse our observations, linking them to body systems, the patient's medical history and their cause of death. 

This is my second time in the DR, the first time being back in my International Pre-Med course, but it was still a little unnerving to be in the DR. The smell of formaldehyde in the room and stronger still when the body was revealed feels very unnatural and makes me feel uneasy, but over the 2 hours I got more used to it and more comfortable. Also, when the demonstrator asked for us to help uncover the body, I was very nervous, since it was the first time in a long time where I would be seeing and touching a dead body. But I swallowed my fear and pushed ahead, knowing I would need to get used to such activities eventually, and the sooner the better. 

During the session, the demonstrator required someone to "lead" the group through the practical instructions. I volunteered for the position, as I am quite comfortable in leadership positions and had read the instructions beforehand. I think I did a decent job of guiding everyone through the practical, but if I were to redo it, I think I would keep quiet a bit more, and allow the quieter members of the group to have a chance to speak, since I was very eager to state my observations and may have overshadowed some of my other teammates. 

I think the thing that struck me the most emotionally was the sudden thought I had, looking at the body, that this was a real person, and very soon I would be required to cut it open. It feels like a defiling of the person this body used to be, and I'm not sure I'm mentally prepared to do that. I think it will be the hardest part of the DR visits to come.  

To prepare for the next sessions, I think I will take some time beforehand to meditate and check in with myself, so to allow myself some time to mentally prepare to work with the cadaver. It also allows me to remind myself that these people knowingly and voluntarily donated their bodies for this exact purpose, so I can be more at peace knowing that this is what they would have wanted. 